DOCS-7714 cms threats active protection (#22956)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/cloud_security_management/guide/active-protection.md

## Protection options

You have three options for Agent rules:

- **Monitoring:** This is the default setting for enabled rules regardless of whether Active Protection is enabled. The Agent monitors for the enabled rule and displays detections in [Signals][1]. 
- **Blocking:** 
  - Blocking is available when Active Protection is enabled. Blocking is available on select OOTB rules that have high confidence, true positives.
  - The Agent monitors for the enabled rule, terminates the corresponding actions instantly, and displays detections in [Signals][1].
- **Disabled:** The Agent does not monitor for the rule events and does not send detections to the Datadog backend.

<div class="alert alert-info">Blocking is applied to all threats detected after blocking is enabled. Blocking is not retroactive.</div>

## Active Protection availability

Active Protection is enabled at the organization level. 

<div class="alert alert-info">Active Protection blocking functionality is available in a subset of the OOTB Agent rules only. Agent rule monitoring runs regardless of whether Active Protection is enabled.</div>

> To see if Active Protection is already enabled in your organization, go to [Agent Configuration][2] and see if there is a **Protection** column in the Agent rule list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if Active Protection is already enabled in your organization, go to [Agent Configuration][2]. If Active Protection is enabled, a **Protection** column is displayed in the Agent rule list.
```

2. In the signal, view **Next Steps**. 
   - If Active Protection is enabled, in **Proactively block threats**, the **Active Protection Enabled** is displayed.
   - If Active Protection is not enabled, **Active Protection Enabled** is not displayed.

If Active Protection is enabled and available for an Agent rule, you can see it by looking at the rule:

1. In [Agent Configuration][2], select a rule.
2. In the rule, if Active Protection is enabled and available, there is a **Protection** section.

## Enable Active Protection

When you enable Active Protection, you are enabling the Active Protection capability for your entire Datadog org. Active Protection is not limited to individual users.

By default, all OOTB Agent rules are in a monitoring state. Enabling Active Protection does not immediately change the default state. Enabling Active Protection allows you to change the state of a rule from monitoring to blocking.

Consequently, you do not need to worry that enabling Active Protection immediately changes the state of threat detection.

To enable Active Protection:

1. Go to CSM [Agent Configuration][2] rules.
2. Select **Enable Active Protection**.

>     {{< img src="security/cws/guide/enable-active-protection.png" alt="Your image description" style="width:100%;" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
    {{< img src="security/cws/guide/enable-active-protection.png" alt="Enable Active Protection button" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

After Active Protection is enabled, you can configure the **Blocking** option on an Agent rule and the Agent will terminate the corresponding actions instantly.

To enable blocking on an Agent rule:

1. In [Agent Configuration][2], open a rule that has **Monitoring** in the **Protection** column. If there is no **Monitoring** or **Blocking** in the **Protection** column, then Active Protection is not available for that rule yet.
2. In the Agent rule, in **Protection**, select **Blocking**.
   
   {{< img src="security/cws/guide/protection-blocking-option.png" alt="An Agent rule Protection section displaying the Blocking option" style="width:100%;" >}}
3. In **Where**, select **Everywhere** or **Custom**. For details on these options, see [Scoping the Agent rule][3] below.
4. Select **Save Changes**.
5. In Agent Configuration, select **Deploy Agent Policy**.

### Scoping the Agent rule

When you create or edit an Agent rule after Active Protection is enabled, you can select **Blocking** in the rule **Protection** setting. 

When you select **Blocking**, you can scope where Datadog should apply the rule using the **Everywhere** and **Custom** options. 

#### Everywhere

> The rule applies to all services, hosts, images, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rule applies to all services, hosts, and images.
```

#### Custom

In **Custom**, you can specify services or tags to automatically generate an expression for where to apply blocking protection.

<div class="alert alert-info">Any service or image that is not matched by the expression is not blocked, but it is still monitored.</div>

> You can use services and tags to generate an expression. Datadog matches the rule using the service(s) or tag(s) you provide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use services and tags to generate an expression. Datadog matches the rule using the services or tags you provide.
```

- **Services:** Enter one or more service names. You can use wildcards. For example, entering `a*` generates the expression `process.envp in ["DD_SERVICE=a*"]`.
- **Tags:** Enter one or more tags for container images. If you enter multiple tags, all tags must match for the **Protection** to apply. There are two options:

>   - `image_tag`: the image tag only. For example, `stable-perl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `image_tag`: The image tag only. For example, `stable-perl`.
```

>   - `short_image`: the image name without a tag. For example, `nginx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `short_image`: The image name without a tag. For example, `nginx`.
```

>   - For example, a Github Container registry image such `ghcr.io/MY_NAMESPACE/MY_IMAGE:2.5` can be referenced using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For example, a Github Container registry image such as `ghcr.io/MY_NAMESPACE/MY_IMAGE:2.5` can be referenced using:
```

    - `image_tag`: `2.5`.
    - `short_image`: `MY_IMAGE`.

## Blocked attack example

> After Active Protection is enabled at set to **Blocking** for an Agent rule, blocked threats appear in [Signals][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Active Protection is enabled and set to **Blocking** for an Agent rule, blocked threats appear in [Signals][1].
```

> A signal for a blocked threat contains the messages `SECURITY RESPONSE` and `The malicious process THREAT NAME has automatically been killed.`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A signal for a blocked threat contains the messages `SECURITY RESPONSE` and `The malicious process <THREAT NAME> has automatically been killed.`:
```

> {{< img src="security/cws/guide/active-protection-signal-messages.png" alt="Your image description" style="width:100%;" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< img src="security/cws/guide/active-protection-signal-messages.png" alt="Signal messages" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

---
title: Proactively block threats with Active Protection
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "security/threats/workload_security_rules"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "CSM Threats Detection Rules"
---

> <div class="alert alert-info">CSM Threats **Active Protection** is in beta.</div>

Author: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">CSM Threats Active Protection is in beta.</div>
```
